THE PREAH VIHEAR CASE CAMBODIA v. THAILAND	P
DIVYAPRATAP PARMAR	P
Introduction	F
The present case was filed in the International Court of Justice ICJ .	F
The International Court of Justice ICJ is one of the six principal organs of the United Nations.	R
It settles disputes between the countries in reference with international law and providing opinions on international legal issues arising inter countries.	S
The official working languages of the are English and French.	F
There are two types of judgements that the International Court of Justice produces first Contentious cases binding rulings between states that agree or have previously agreed to submit to the ruling of the court second Advisory opinion reasoned but non binding rulings on properly submitted questions of international law usually at the request of the United Nations General Assembly.	P
Background of the Case	F
The temple of Preah Vihear is an ancient Hindu shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva known as The Destroyer within the Trimurti the Hindu trinity who includes Brahma and Vishnu.	R
In the Shaivite tradition Shiva is the Supreme Lord who creates protects and transforms the universe.	R
The temple was built during the period of the Khmer Empire in the 9th century that is situated on a 1 722 ft high cliff in the Dangrek Range Vihear province of Cambodia with Thailand being directly to its north.	F
In its current position the temple is 700m away from the Thai border.	F
It is a mythological anodyne that the origin of the temple can be traced back to Jayavarman IIs son Prince Indrayudha who in A.D. 893 installed a fragment from a stone monument called a lingam at the site.	R
Therefore the temple stood as a symbol of not only Lord Shiva but also the northern extent of Khmer Empire existing at that moment.	R
The Cambodian and Thai boundaries are separated by the natural forming of Dangrek Range with the watershed region where the temple is situated on a cliff like escarpment from where the land then descends to the north into Thailand.	R
However this region is highly coveted due to its historical religious and tourism value due to which several clashes between the two countries have taken place over time.	R
Matter of conflict between Cambodia Thailand	F
The dispute between Cambodia and Thailand relates to the territorial sovereignty of the region consisting of and surrounding the Temple of Preah Vihear it and ancient temple gaining immense popularity due to its religious and historical value.	F
Cambodian claimed that as per the map formed by the Mixed Delimitation Commission set up under the Treaty of 1904 it is evident that the temple falls within the national boundaries of Cambodia and because it distinguishes the frontline between both countries the temple falls within the sovereignty of Cambodia.	A
Where Thailand has against the law deployed armed forces while the land belongs to Cambodia.	R
While Thailand on the other hand claims the map to be inaccurate to recognise as the temple itself is not anywhere mentioned in that map.	R
It rather believes that the location of the temple is such that it naturally distinguishes the land trough the cliffs and watershed line and they have exercised its sovereignty on the temple at the material times.	R
Cambodia approached the ICJ for clarification and resolving the dispute Government of Thailand raised preliminary objections to the jurisdiction stating that the declaration did not constitute a valid acceptance on Thailands part of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.	F
Thailand never accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.	R
Ratio of the Judgement	R
The court provided the following ratio decidendi for rejection of the preliminary objections 	RLC
That the sole relevant question according to the court was whether the language written in Thailand s 1950 declaration signified a clear intention in the terms of Article 36 paragraph 2 of the Statute to recognise as compulsory the jurisdiction of the Court.	R
The Court utilised a basic reasoning interpretation that the declaration would have no other meaning rather than an acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice since there was no other Court to which it could reference to since Thailand was aware of the dissolution of the former Court.	R
Analysis of the judgement delivered	RLC
In the Judgment on the facts proposed by both the parties the Court by 9 votes to 3 came to the conclusion that Preah Vihear temple is situated in the territory under the sovereignty of Cambodia moreover in the consequence that it is the obligation of Government of Thailand to withdraw any military or police forces or any other guards or keepers stationed by the country at the Temple premises or in its vicinity on Cambodian territory.	F
By 7 votes to 5 the Court found that Thailand is under an obligation to restore to Cambodia all the sculptures fragments of monuments stelae ancient pottery and sandstone model which might since the date of the occupation of the Temple by Thailand in the year of 1954 have been removed from the Temple or the Temple area by the Thai authority.	RLC
Justice Tanaka and Justice Morelli appended to the Judgment a Joint Declaration.	P
Vice President Alfaro and Judge Sir Gerald Fitzmaurice appended Separate Opinions.	R
Justice Moreno Quintana Sir Percy Spender and Justice Wellington Koo appended Dissenting Opinions.	P
The Court further found that the subject of the dispute was sovereignty over the region of the Temple of Preah Vihear.	F
The ancient temple dedicated to Lord Shiva sanctuary partially in ruins stood on a promontory of the Danangrek Range of mountains which constituted the boundary between Cambodia and Thailand.	F
The dispute had its fons et origo in the boundary settlements made in the period of year 1904 to 1908 between France then conducting the foreign relations of Indo China and Siam Thailand .	R
The application of the Treaty of 13 February 1904 was in particular involved that established the general character of the frontier the exact boundary of which was to be delimited by a Fmco Siamese Mixed Commission.	R
Taking into account the temples geographic environment the court stated that the temple is situated on a promontory with cliffs on the east and south which towards the end run into a valley in the west and	F
northwest direction para. 89 .	R
Hence a holistic approach of understanding the concept of the milieu of the temple would encompass the entire promontory region of the Preah Vihear.	R
Towards the North the Vicinity of the Cambodian territory reaches as far as the police station but no further than the Annex I map line which was the basis of the Courts dictum in the year 1962.	R
Request of reinterpretation	RPC
The Court recalled the requirements of Article 60 of the Statute 	P
The existence of dispute between the parties as to the meaning or scope of a judgment rendered by the Courtthat is a dispute concerning the operative clause of the judgment in question and not to the reasons for the judgment except insofar as the reasons are inseparable from the operative clause.	P
The main purpose behind seeking an interpretation should rest upon the need to declutter the meaning and the scope of what the Court has decided with binding force and not to obtain an answer to questions not so decided.	R
The Court also clarified in response to a contention raised by Cambodia that the headnote of the Judgment cannot provide guidance as to its scope and that it does not represent an authoritative summary of what the Court has actually decided.	R
It was reiterated that because it refused to clarify whether the line shown on the Annex 1 map constitutes the frontier between the Parties the Court was unable to put an end to a long lasting dispute between Cambodia and Thailand.	R
On the other hand this question was not before the Court in 1962 and it was not decided with binding force but merely included in the reasoning of the Judgment.	R
The Court had found this claim inadmissible as a new claim although this is not explicitly stated in the 1962 Judgment.	R
If the 2013 Court had provided an interpretation on this point it would have substituted itself for the 1962 Court by adding a question which was not decided at that time in the operative part.	R
In effect this aspect of Cambodias request amounted to a request for revision.	R
Thailands behaviour could also be criticized as hardly meeting the standard of good faith required in the implementation of the judgments of the principal judicial organ of the United Nations.	R
The Court thus interpreted the 1962 judgment to give Cambodia sovereignty over the entire promontory which represents roughly half of the disputed 4.6 square kilometers bounded by the Annex I map line to the north and extending to the west until the ground begins to rise at the foot of Phnom Trap paras. 98 108 .	F
Taking note of Thai concerns about the difficulty of transposing the Annex I map line onto a modern map it left the precise location of that line the frontier at the foot of Phnom Trap and sovereignty over the remainder of the disputed strip subject to further negotiation para. 99 .	F
It also noted Thailands obligation to respect Cambodias territorial integrity once the dispute is resolved obviating the need to address the continuing relevance of the Thai withdrawal obligation under the 1962 verdict.	R
Concluding Remarks	F
The judgment provided by the court not only reflects the mindset of the judges and litigating parties but also represents a holistic picture of what solution best remedies the issue at hand.	R
More generally greater clarity in the drafting of judgments could prevent exacerbation of existing disputes in future cases especially when it comes to the International Court of Justice the court which bears upon itself one of the most onerous tasks of settling disputes between nations engaged in a dispute.	R
The Preah Vihear case demonstrates how things tend to disarray when expressions in the judgment are susceptible to more than one interpretation by the parties causing further complications.	R
