after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
none of her children survived her.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband 's estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
this rule of construction by analogy is a dangerous one to follow in construing wills differently worded and executed in different surroundings.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman 's estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
in our judgment there is force in the contention of mr rajah iyer for reasons already stated and in the result therefore we dismiss this appeal with costs.
they will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
this was a case of a gift inter vivos.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
