house rent allowance was also paid.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
taking all these factors into consideration it made an award dated 20th december1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
it must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
no ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
it is an accepted principle that consent by a party can not confer jurisdiction on a court.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
the same has been made clear in paragraph.
on this application the advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement submitted to whatever this honourable tribunal desires to do.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
