in fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
to the question have all sites been handed over on due date the answer shown was an affirmative yes.
the military estates officer delhi mr k k gamkhar will also be here on 13th morning.
i therefore request you to issue suitable instructions to your staff so that all the relevant papers may be suitably prepared.
it would however appear from exh.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
but this was not necessary because gamkhar was not present nor did he sign the receipt.
the nonexamination of other witnesses without anything more can not be treated as defect in the prosecution.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
a regular case is therefore registered and entrusted to inspector baldev rai handa for investigation.
he may please be asked to complete this formality without any loss of time.
no further action is required to be taken.
these omissions it is submitted by the learned advocate has prejudiced the accused.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
the session judge had found that both charges were proved.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
