this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
it was conceded before the trial court and no attempt was made to establish anything to the contrary before the high court that no notice of forfeiture as required under section 9 was given to the appellant.
this vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
this case does not support the contention that a mere trespasser who has deliberately and wrongfully contrary to the provisions of section 5 of the act entered upon another 's land which makes such an act even punishable under section 6 thereof is entitled to compensation for the trees planted by him on the land.
even in paragraph 4 of the plaint where he complains that no notice of forfeiture was given to him he mentions only the items referred to in paragraph 3.
this defendant submits that after due notice an order of forfeiture has been passed in poramboke case 112 of 11 00 and the plaintiff is therefore not entitled to claim any value of improvements or value of any building.
p w 4 the manager was asked in cross examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
need be given under section 9 of the act and therefore no compensation or damages were payable in respect thereof.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
it was contended that the defendant 's action was justified under the statute ii g 2 c 19 section 8 which after enumerating certain crops empowered the landlord to seize as a distress any other product whatsoever which shall be growing on any part of the estate demised and therefore the trees and shrubs in question came within that description.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
p c 163 1929 indlaw pc 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him for the privy council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far reaching contention.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
