three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
the said order the relevant portion of which we are concerned runs thus he would immediately call upon the divisional forest officer to make appraisement within three months from the receipt of the record.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
he has argued in person and with passion.
even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
we can not import the notion of prevailing bank rates in such situations.
the dynamic rule of law with a social mission makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests on the one hand and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges on the other.
this gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan 's case.
the short answer is that article 313 read with article 312 bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the state subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub articles on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
presidential assent has been accorded to this state act and so the ban operates.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
indeed if the actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued the compensation might be zero.
in short section 27 properly construed can not lend itself to the meaning imputed to it by the appellant.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
however what followed is interesting though erroneous.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
this will among other things save time.
it is again due to mistakes committed by the authorities concerned that the matter is being remitted back to the compensation officer for disposal.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
the rule making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine removal of difficulties clause contained in section 50.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
the direction given by the learned judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
the force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the compensation officer shall be completed within six months from today.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
