this appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated april 241974 of the letters patent bench of the high court of judicature at madras reversing the judgment and order dated april 191971 of the single judge of that court passed in writ petition no 3822 of 1969 presented u art 226 of the constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases maternity benefit for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day occurring in s 51 of the maternity benefits act1961.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
thereupon the establishment moved the high court at madras u art 226 of the constitution challenging the decision of the labour court.
we have heard mr pai learned counsel for the appellant as also mr bhatt who in view of the default in appearance of respondent no 2 and the importance of the point involved in the case was appointed as amicus cruaie.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
in support of his contention.
ker 86 1974 indlaw ker 91and to convention no 103 concerning maternity protection convention revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation.
it has next to be ascertained as to what were the cash wages paid or payable to her in terms of the definition contained in s 3 n of the act for the days on which she worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date of delivery reckoned according to the british calendar month.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
the real though difficult question that calls for determination by us is as to what is the connotation of the term week occurring in sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act and whether the computation of the maternity benefit prescribed by the act for the a foresaid two periods has to be made taking a week as signifying a cycle of seven days including a sunday or a cycle of seven days minus a sunday which is said to be a wageless day as the act does not contain any definition of the word weekit has to be understood in its ordinary dictionary sense.
a week according to halsbury 's laws of england.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
weekwe think that in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including sundays.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
sub s 2 of s 2 of the act specifically excludes the applicability of the provisions of the act to any factory or other establishment to which the provisions of the employees state insurance act1948 apply for the time being s 3n of the act defines wages as under 3n   wages means all remuneration paid or payable in cash to a woman if the terms of the contract of employment express or implied were fulfilled and includes 1 such cash allowances including dearness allowance and house rent allowance as a woman is for the time being entitled to.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
i any bonus other than incentive bonus ii over time earnings and any deduction or payment on account of fines iii any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the woman under any law for the time being in force and iv any gratuity payable on the termination of service.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
on receipt of the notice the employer shall permit such woman to absent herself from the establishment until the expiry of six weeks after the day of her delivery.
2 the rates of cash benefit shall be fixed by national laws or regulations so as to ensure benefit sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance of herself and her child in according with a suitable standard of living.
in the result the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.
